Now, let's take a minute to see how TensorFlow calculates
and keeps track of the gradients needed to perform backpropagation.
TensorFlow uses the tf.GradientTape class to record automatic differentiation operations.
Automatic differentiation is also known as
algorithmic differentiation, or simply autodiff.
It's a family of techniques used by computers to efficiently
and accurately evaluate derivatives of numeric functions.
Let's see an example.
In the following code,
we're going to set at tensor y to be equal to the square of another tensor x.
Then we're going to use df.GradientTape class to
calculate the derivative of tensor y with respect to tensor x.
The correct answer should yield 2x.
So let's check if we get this result.
We begin by setting the seed of
a random number generator so that things are reproducible.
Then we create our tensor x,
which is going to be a random tensor with two rows and two columns.
Now, the df.GradientTape class is able to
calculate derivatives by keeping track of the operations performed on tensors.
Therefore, we must tell the tf.GradientTape class to keep track
of the operations performed on our tensor x by using the watch method.
So from this point forward,
the tf.GradientTape class is going to
watch all the operations we perform on our tensor x.
Then we set tensor y to be equal to the square of our tensor x.
Then we take the derivative of our tensor y with
respect to our tensor x by using the gradient method.
Finally, we want to compare this result to the true value of the derivative,
which we know is 2x.
If we run this code,
we can see that the calculated derivative and the true derivative are exactly the same.
In fact, if we take the difference between the calculated and the true derivative,
we get a maximum difference of zero,
which confirms that they are the same.
By default, TensorFlow will automatically watch
any trainable variables such as the weights and biases of our models.
That's how TensorFlow calculates and keeps track
of the gradients needed to perform backpropagation.
In the next notebook,
we will train a neural network on a slightly more complex dataset.